So let's make sure we can also press the other buttons and for that, the thing we can do is we can add
more functions. We can add another function which could be called subtract because that's what it
should do.
We can add another function which should in the end
multiply values and a fourth function for this which is called divide which does just that.
Now we have all these functions which of course are empty right now,
there is nothing in the function body but they are defined
and now let's add logic.
Now the logic is generally the same as in the add function,
so I'll copy that and adjust it.
I want to get the entered number and here by the way, I can reuse that constant name because as you learned,
this constant or any variable or constant which you define inside of a function belongs to this single
function and therefore you can use the same name in another function because these two are totally
detached from each other.
This name is now not reused because it's not available outside of the function anyways,
hence we can use it in multiple functions. So here, I'm also getting the user input, then here my description
of course is different,
I want to have a minus here
and the calculation also is different,
I want to have my current result which is calculated with a minus instead of a plus.
Now you see, there's still some code repetition we have here, still some code we need to copy,
there are some piece of code we we can't avoid copying or we can't avoid reusing, like here getting
access to the number input.
We don't necessarily need to store this in a brand new constant,
we could use it directly in the places where we need that entered number like here
but I'll find it a bit easier to read if we store it in a new content
but for generating this log text and outputting this, this is actually something we can put into a function
to share and reuse the code instead of copying it.
So I can add a new function up here
and again it's just my pattern that I like to use, that I define functions before I use them.
So if I use a function down there, I define it above
but that's up to you,
the order does not matter as you learned.
So here I'll add a new function, name it createAndWriteLog or something like this which should write
that output or therefore create the write output maybe
and now this function will need three operators to work the way I wanted to work.
I'm interested in the operator that was used in that function
and you can name this however you want, this should be some text which contains the plus, minus or so
on,
not the real operator which we could use because you can't pass an operator as an argument but we can
parse a text which contains the operator so that we can output it. Then I need to result before calculation
and the calculation number let's say, so the number which was used in the calculation. And then I can
grab this calc description and create it here,
now the operator is also dynamic, so I'll also embed this and use my operator and I have my result
before calculation and the calc number, these are the three pieces which I combined together into
one text.
So that's text here,
it's not a mathematical equation which is executed by Javascript,
it's just some output text which I'm generating here
and thereafter, I'll call output result here,
I can refer to the current result because that's a global variable which gets changed and my calc description,
well that's this constant and now the idea is that here, I can actually run, create and write output,
the operator here was a plus and I need that to build that string correctly which describes the operation
which was performed. The result before calc
which is my second parameter that is expected and the order does matter of course,
so my second parameter here is the result before we ran this calculation,
so here that's current result before we ran it. To store this, I can add a new constant, initial result
maybe which is current result before we change it.
Now since we copy that value, initial result won't change
if we then run this line, that's what I also explained earlier,
so now we can pass initial result here and the calc number of course is the entered number here.
So now we can use that, also down there and get rid of that line with output result and where we build
the calc description and here instead, just forward that minus
and yes we need to copy that initial result code. So still some copied code but the logic of building
that string and of outputting it in our webpage, that is outsourced into a new function and all that
refactoring, as this process is called, where we move code around and try to write it in a more elegant
way, is totally optional,
I just want to get you used to it because it is something you will need in your life, in your day as
a programmer, as a developer,
you want to write elegant code where you don't repeat yourself and where you then try to split your
logic.
There rarely is a single right or wrong way of doing it but getting started with it and thinking about
it is always something you should do.
So now with that, let's actually copy that logic into multiply and there
we need the star operator and here in the calculation of course also the asterisk here to multiply
this and for dividing, here we need the slash which is the division operator and also output this here
in our log
and now with that if we save all of that, we just need to register the event listeners for these buttons.
So just as we have an add button in the vendor file, we've got a subtract, multiply and divide button so
we can use these as well.
So here I'll add subtract button and then just copy this code here
but of course point at the subtract function here and then repeat that but of course now use the multiply
and the divide button here,
so multiply and divide button and point at multiply and add divide. Now with that if we save that and
we reload this page, if I add 5 with the plus, 0 plus 5,
now enter three and then click minus, five minus three and the calculator
now just works such that you need to enter the value and then press the button where you want to
use that value with the previous result,
that's how this calculator works,
that's why it's the unconventional calculator.
So now let's add 10 and star,
so we had two, so now it should be 2 times 10
and that's the case
and finally divide by 4 maybe and we get 5.
So this all works,
now we connected a couple of buttons to our functions and we also had a first look at code refactoring
and code reusage, an art which you will master as you work as a developer and where you shouldn't
worry if you're not totally sure how to split your code yet,
that is something that comes with experience and something you will also do a lot throughout this course.
So by the end of the course, you'll already feel way more confident about that than you probably do right
now.